# Notes with @mikegehard


## links
lostisland/faraday
https://github.com/lostisland/faraday

stripe/stripe-ruby
https://github.com/stripe/stripe-ruby

Stripe API Reference
https://stripe.com/docs/api#intro

Martin Fowler on ORM Hate - DZone Database
https://dzone.com/articles/martin-fowler-orm-hate

P of EAA: Repository
http://martinfowler.com/eaaCatalog/repository.html

Layouts and Rendering in Rails — Ruby on Rails Guides
http://guides.rubyonrails.org/layouts_and_rendering.html

patterns of enterprise application architecture - Google Search
https://www.google.com/search?sourceid=chrome-psyapi2&ion=1&espv=2&es_th=1&ie=UTF-8&q=patterns%20of%20enterprise%20application%20architecture&oq=patterns%20of%20e&aqs=chrome.0.0l3j69i57j0l2.2135j0j1

Catalog of Patterns of Enterprise Application Architecture
http://martinfowler.com/eaaCatalog/

P of EAA: Active Record
http://martinfowler.com/eaaCatalog/activeRecord.html

martin fowler object to relational mapping - Google Search
https://www.google.com/search?q=martin+fowler+object+to+relational+mapping&espv=2&source=lnt&tbs=qdr:y&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwiH5vjV5NbJAhVMy2MKHbIoDEUQpwUIFQ&biw=2327&bih=575

Configuring Rails Applications — Ruby on Rails Guides
http://guides.rubyonrails.org/configuring.html


# API DEPLOY

noraml api, vanilla deploy look like?

## heroku 12 factor concept

By default app should be configured for a one command development

Used in dev more than production

Dev is the default

In prod you have full control over everything - speifying everything you can.

Dev i just want to work.

To change a config - you use env variables so that code is only ever README


## do _that_ from the beginning

homework - research 12 factor concepts

reasonable configuration in mind to be built and setup in one step.


## MC

- well for thsees guys you should
thing.yaml and thing.rb

sometimes don't need initializer b/c it reads from a config.

## Stripe

### Beginning - before building features. / Discovery

1. what they have?
- api
- gem

2. dev account sandbox?
- play and learn

3. exp branch
- small, goals like - connect
- make a request
- just learn what are some pitfalls, good parts to factor into our use.

4. encapsulate the api in such a way that next month if stripe goes out of business or we switch to braintree
so that who we're talking to is a configuration detail. (high level philosophy about interacting). but you really need the business requirements before you need to know.

is there a design pattern to follow?
- how you design the interaction b/n your code and their code

ex.

po - 'charge the customer'
    that step of the code should go through some 'common interface'

    PaymentsGateway(who, cost)
    - under the hood is talks to stripe, bc we're not hardcoding stripe into solution. (avoiding vendor lock in)


classs People, Products, Services (charge something)

People.charge

Payments.charge(@person, 25.00, US_Dollars)
Payments.charge(@person, 0.25, Bitcoins)

Payments.charge(@person, 0.25, Bitcoins) # => Payments::Response ( details about payment )

class Payments

def self.chage(*args)
  # doesn't have to happen immediately - could put a queue in payments. log the fail and reply them later. (exmple stripe has an outage - doens't bother your orders or users)
  Whatever.new(object).charge(value, currency)
end

class Payments.rb
class PaymentResponse.rb

PG(@person).charge
PG(@product).charge

## Part 2 implementation
- 1. a note about business requirements (over communicate to make sure not any potential for screw up.) - you must have them in order to know what assumptions
- 2. aspire to encapsulate / oop
  - 2b fault tolerant (system design)



part of being a sr. developer to build a system to move and evolve over time.

Books
Design Patterns - GOF

---------------
# how to communicate with a developer
- due date
- manager
- ticket
-
